Update the release process. (#3357)
microsoft/ebpf-for-windows: docs/ReleaseProcess.md

# Release Process

This document outlines the steps to create, publish and service a release of eBPF for Windows.

> The eBPF project follows [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org) for versioning releases in the format `X.Y.Z`, where "`X`" and "`Y`" are the major and minor versions respectively. "`Z`" is the patch version for servicing releases. A release is usually made once every month. Pre-release binaries are test signed. Official releases will be production signed using Microsoft certificates.

Reviewer: I'd recommend breaking source lines into shorter lines since github starts having problems with diffs for long lines.  Same for lines 11, 42, 51, etc.

> >**Note**: Currently the *major version* for all releases are set to "`0`" (i.e. "`0.Y.Z`") until the first official release is published with version `1.0.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note**: Currently the *major version* for all releases is set to "`0`" (i.e. "`0.Y.Z`") until the first official release is published with version `1.0.0`.
```
grammar: "version ... is" not "version ... are"

## Creating a new release

An issue with the title `Scheduled eBPF release is due` is created on the first day of every month requesting for a new release with the minor version incremented every time. When this issue is triaged, a decision must be taken by the maintainers on whether to go ahead with the new monthly release. If the decision is to create a new release the release manager must proceed with the following process.

> 1. Create a topic branch from "`main`" on your private repo fork, and check it out (e.g., `<user>/release-build`).

Reviewer 2: Best practices for numbering in markdown are to use dynamically instantiated numbering, as used originally.

Author: Sure. I can do that. Thanks.

2. Run the following script from the root directory of the repository, from a "*Developer Powershell for VS 2022"* terminal.

    ```ps
    # Replace "X" and "Y" with the new major and minor versions:

>     .\scripts\update-release-version.ps1 X Y 0

Reviewer 3: FYI, MsQuic's [update-version.ps1](https://github.com/microsoft/msquic/blob/main/scripts/update-version.ps1) script only takes one argument `-Part` which allows you to specify `Major`, `Minor` or `Patch`. It then does the logic of finding the current version and updating things accordingly. It makes it harder for a typo to creep in.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. We will take it under consideration.

    ```

>     For example, the successful run of the script for version 0.12.0 produces the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For example, a successful run of the script for version 0.12.0 produces the following output:
```
grammar nit

# Release Process

> This document outlines the steps to create, publish and service a release of eBPF for Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines the steps to create, publish, and service a release of eBPF for Windows.
```

The eBPF project follows [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org) for versioning releases in the format `X.Y.Z`, where "`X`" and "`Y`" are the major and
minor versions respectively. "`Z`" is the patch version for servicing releases. A release is usually made once every month. Pre-release binaries are test signed.
Official releases will be production signed using Microsoft certificates.

>**Note**: Currently the *major version* for all releases is set to "`0`" (i.e. "`0.Y.Z`") until the first official release is published with version `1.0.0`.

## Creating a new release

> An issue with the title `Scheduled eBPF release is due` is created on the first day of every month requesting for a new release with the minor version incremented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An issue with the title `Scheduled eBPF release is due` is created on the first day of every month requesting a new release with the minor version incremented
```
grammar nit

> An issue with the title `Scheduled eBPF release is due` is created on the first day of every month requesting for a new release with the minor version incremented

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An issue with the title `Scheduled eBPF release is due` is automatically created on the first day of every month requesting for a new release with the minor version incremented
```

every time. When this issue is triaged, a decision must be taken by the maintainers on whether to go ahead with the new monthly release. If the decision is to
create a new release the release manager must proceed with the following process.

> 1. Create a topic branch from "`main`" on your private repo fork, and check it out (e.g., `<user>/release-build`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a topic branch from "`main`" on your private repo fork, and check it out (e.g., `<user>/release-X-Y-Z`).
```
I'd suggest suggesting the name as before, as infusing precision especially for who does the process the first time is better.

# Release Process

This document outlines the steps to create, publish, and service a release of eBPF for Windows.

The eBPF project follows [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org) for versioning releases in the format `X.Y.Z`, where "`X`" and "`Y`" are the major and
minor versions respectively. "`Z`" is the patch version for servicing releases. A release is usually made once every month. Pre-release binaries are test signed.
Official releases will be production signed using Microsoft certificates.

> >**Note**: Currently the *major version* for all releases is set to "`0`" (i.e. "`0.Y.Z`") until the first official release is published with version `1.0.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note**: Currently the *major version* for all releases is set to "`0`" (i.e., "`0.Y.Z`") until the first official release is published with version `1.0.0`.
```
punctuation nit

    >NOTE: The formatting rules may complain about the formatting of the generated `.c` files from the script above. In this case, override them with the following (so they'll work with the `bpf2c_tests` verifying their content):
    >```bash
    >git commit --no-verify
    >```
1. Create a pull-request from your topic branch into the `main` branch of the original repo, with the title of the PR as *"Release v`X.Y.0`"* (replace "`X`" and "`Y`" with the version number being released).
1. Once the PR is approved and merged into the "`main`" branch, of the original `ebpf-for-windows` repo, create a new release branch from `main` from the **previous PR's commit**, and name it "`release/X.Y.`".
1. **IMPORTANT:** Once the release branch is created, no new feature work is allowed to be merged. However, bug fixes can be taken as deemed necessary by the maintainers and the release manager. Whenever applicable, these bug fixer should first be made in the main branch, and cherry-picked to the release branch. In case a bug-fix PRs are merged into the `release/X.Y` branch, the **latest commit** in the `release/X.Y` branch must be designated as the commit for the release.

> 11. Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation) to ensure the quality of the release branch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation) to ensure the quality of the release branch.
```

1. In the triage meeting after successful creation of the release branch, the release manager must ask if any maintainer has any reasons to hold off the release. If not, move to the following steps.
1. The `sign-off` label will be added to the issue created in step 1 of the [Creating a new release](ReleaseProcess.md#creating-a-new-release) process. Next create a tag for the *latest commit on the `release/X.Y` branch*. The tag should reflect the version number being released and adhere to the following notation: "`Release-vX.Y.0`".
1. The tag creation will automatically trigger the "`CI/CD - Release validation`" workflow for the `release/X.Y` branch. In case of failure, Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation).

> 11. Publish the release as per the [Publishing a Release](ReleaseProcess.md#publishing-a-release) process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Publish the release as per the [Publishing a Release](ReleaseProcess.md#publishing-a-release) process.
```

## Release Branch Validation

> The `CI/CD - Release validation` worfklow (`cicd-release-validation.yml`) is used to validate a release branch. It contains more tests than the regular CI/CD pipeline, including longer duration fuzz tests, fault injection tests, stress tests, performance tests etc. These tests can be manually scheduled. Release manager must run these tests on the release manager. Due to the non-deterministic nature of some of the tests, it is recommended that the tests are run at least three times on the branch. If any of the tests fail, the release manager must investigate the failure and follow up with issues in github. Once potential fixes are merged to the release branch repeat the process until the workflow completes successfully.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `CI/CD - Release validation` worfklow (`cicd-release-validation.yml`) is used to validate a release branch. It contains more tests than the regular CI/CD pipeline, including longer duration fuzz tests, fault injection tests, stress tests, performance tests etc. These tests can be manually scheduled. Release manager must run these tests on the release manager. Due to the non-deterministic nature of some of the tests, it is recommended that the tests are run at least three times on the branch. If any of the tests fail, the release manager must investigate the failure and follow up with issues in GitHub. Once potential fixes are merged to the release branch repeat the process until the workflow completes successfully.
```

## Publishing the Release to GitHub

1. Go to the repo on GitHub and click on "`<Code>`" and click on right the "`Create a new release`" link.
1. Click on the "`Choose a tag`" combo box and select the tag with version number for the release, as created earlier.
1. Fill in the release title as "`vX.Y.Z`". Note "`Z`" must be `0` for the monthly release. Otherwise, it should be the patch number.
1. Manually enter release notes or click "`Generate release notes`" and then edit as desired.

> 1. Microsoft maintains an internal mirror of the eBPF for Windows project. For a given release branch in github, the mirror repo will have a corresponding one. The release manager must download the "`ebpf-for-windows - MSI installer (Build-x64_Release)`" and "`ebpf-for-windows - NuGet package (Build-x64_Release)`" build artifacts

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Microsoft maintains an internal mirror of the eBPF for Windows project. For a given release branch in GitHub, the mirror repo will have a corresponding one. The release manager must download the "`ebpf-for-windows - MSI installer (Build-x64_Release)`" and "`ebpf-for-windows - NuGet package (Build-x64_Release)`" build artifacts
```

This document outlines the steps to create, publish and service a release of eBPF for Windows.

> The eBPF project follows [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org) for versioning releases in the format `X.Y.Z`, where "`X`" and "`Y`" are the major and minor versions respectively. "`Z`" is the patch version for servicing releases. A release is usually made once every month. Pre-release binaries are test signed. Official releases will be production signed using Microsoft certificates.

Reviewer 3: Why did you change this to 1.0?

Author: That was an unintended find-replace accident 😋

    Version number updated to '0.12.0' in D:\work\ebpf-for-windows\scripts\..\installer\Product.wxs
    Rebuilding the solution, please wait...
    Regenerating the expected 'bpf2c' output...
    ...
    ...
    Expected 'bpf2c' output regenerated.

>     Please verify all the changes then submit the pull-request into the 'release/0.11' branch.

Reviewer: Since line 27 mentions version 0.12, why does this say 0.11?

    ```
1. Verify all the changes then commit all in the working branch.
    >NOTE: The formatting rules may complain about the formatting of the generated `.c` files from the script above. In this case, override them with the following (so they'll work with the `bpf2c_tests` verifying their content):
    >```bash
    >git commit --no-verify
    >```
1. Create a pull-request from your topic branch into the `main` branch of the original repo, with the title of the PR as *"Release v`X.Y.0`"* (replace "`X`" and "`Y`" with the version number being released).
1. Once the PR is approved and merged into the "`main`" branch, of the original `ebpf-for-windows` repo, create a new release branch from `main` from the **previous PR's commit**, and name it "`release/X.Y.`".

> 1. **IMPORTANT:** Once the release branch is created, no new feature work is allowed to be merged. However, bug fixes can be taken as deemed necessary by the maintainers and the release manager. Whenever applicable, these bug fixer should first be made in the main branch, and cherry-picked to the release branch. In case a bug-fix PRs are merged into the `release/X.Y` branch, the **latest commit** in the `release/X.Y` branch must be designated as the commit for the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **IMPORTANT:** Once the release branch is created, no new feature work is allowed to be merged. However, bug fixes can be taken as deemed necessary by the maintainers and the release manager. Whenever applicable, these bug fixes should first be made in the main branch, and cherry-picked to the release branch. In case bug-fix PRs are merged into the `release/X.Y` branch, the **latest commit** in the `release/X.Y` branch must be designated as the commit for the release.
```
Fix typos

1. Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation) to ensure the quality of the release branch.

> 1. In the triage meeting after successful creation of the release branch, the release manager must ask if any maintainer has any reasons to hold off the release. If not, move to the following steps.

Reviewer 4: What happens if the follow sequence happens:
1 - Release branch created
2 - Release branch approved in triage meeting
3 - CI/CD Release validation fails.
4 - Bug fixes are required to pass CI/CD Release Validation, and they get merged.

Do we need a step 5 where re-approval/signoff is granted by maintainers? If so, does this happen in a subsequent triage meeting?

Reviewer 2: No need for re-approval: the release approval is related to the feature it contains, and is only needed once. Bug fixes as a consequence of failures in the CICI Validation pipeline are by design.

Author: Agreed, You go by the `Release Branch Validation` process which does not require any approval process. I have updated line 44 to read "successful validation" instead of "creation".

1. The `sign-off` label will be added to the issue created in step 1 of the [Creating a new release](ReleaseProcess.md#creating-a-new-release) process. Next create a tag for the *latest commit on the `release/X.Y` branch*. The tag should reflect the version number being released and adhere to the following notation: "`Release-vX.Y.0`".
1. The tag creation will automatically trigger the "`CI/CD - Release validation`" workflow for the `release/X.Y` branch. In case of failure, Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation).
1. Publish the release as per the [Publishing a Release](ReleaseProcess.md#publishing-a-release) process.

## Release Branch Validation

> The `CI/CD - Release validation` worfklow (`cicd-release-validation.yml`) is used to validate a release branch. It contains more tests than the regular CI/CD pipeline, including longer duration fuzz tests, fault injection tests, stress tests, performance tests etc. These tests can be manually scheduled. Release manager must run these tests on the release manager. Due to the non-deterministic nature of some of the tests, it is recommended that the tests are run at least three times on the branch. If any of the tests fail, the release manager must investigate the failure and follow up with issues in GitHub. Once potential fixes are merged to the release branch repeat the process until the workflow completes successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CI/CD - Release validation` worfklow (`cicd-release-validation.yml`) is used to validate a release branch. It contains more tests than the regular CI/CD pipeline, including longer duration fuzz tests, fault injection tests, stress tests, performance tests, etc. These tests can be manually scheduled. The release manager must run these tests on the release branch. Due to the non-deterministic nature of some of the tests, it is recommended that the tests are run at least three times on the branch. If any of the tests fail, the release manager must investigate the failure and follow up with issues in GitHub. Once potential fixes are merged to the release branch repeat the process until the workflow completes successfully.
```
Fix wording

## Publishing the Release to GitHub

> 1. Go to the repo on GitHub and click on "`<Code>`" and click on right the "`Create a new release`" link.

Reviewer: What does "click on right the" mean?  Should "right" be removed?

> 1. Click on the "`Choose a tag`" combo box and select the tag with version number for the release, as created earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the "`Choose a tag`" combo box and select the tag with the version number for the release, as created earlier.
```

    Rebuilding the solution, please wait...
    Regenerating the expected 'bpf2c' output...
    ...
    ...
    Expected 'bpf2c' output regenerated.
    Please verify all the changes then submit the pull-request into the 'release/0.12' branch.
    ```
4. Verify all the changes then commit all in the working branch.
    >NOTE: The formatting rules may complain about the formatting of the generated `.c` files from the script above. In this case, override them with the following (so they'll work with the `bpf2c_tests` verifying their content):
    >```bash
    >git commit --no-verify
    >```
5. Create a **Draft** pull-request from your topic branch into the `main` branch of the upstream repo, with the title of the PR as *"Release v`X.Y.0`"* (replace "`X`" and "`Y`" with the version number being released).
6. Once the CI/CD pipeline for the PR completes, download the "`ebpf-for-windows - MSI installer (Build-x64_Release)`" and "`ebpf-for-windows - NuGet package (Build-x64_Release)`" build artifacts
   (accessible via the "`Actions`" tab on GitHub).
7. Extract the `*.nupkg` file, and rename it in the following format:

>     - `eBPF-for-Windows.X.Y.0.nupkg`

Reviewer 3: Why? I don't see a following step actually using this. Nor should there be one. All published binaries should only come from OneBranch builds, never GitHub, and especially not a PR.

Author: Fixed.

8. Mark the draft PR as "Ready for review".

> 9. Once the PR is approved and merged into the "`main`" branch, of the upstream `ebpf-for-windows` repo, create a new release branch from `main` from the **previous PR's commit**, and name it "`release/X.Y.`".

Reviewer 3: IMHO, merging a change into `main` first and then forking invited mistake. I don't see why you need to do it in that order. You should fork first, then update the main branch version.

Author: We intend to maintain this behavior. Once again, please discuss this with @gtrevi . I am happy to revisit this after you discuss this.

11. Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation) to ensure the quality of the release branch.
1. In the triage meeting after successful creation of the release branch, the release manager must ask if any maintainer has any reasons to hold off the release. If not, move to the following steps.
4. The `sign-off` label will be added to the issue created in step 1 of the [Creating a new release](ReleaseProcess.md#creating-a-new-release) process. Next create a tag for the *latest commit on the `release/X.Y` branch*. The tag should reflect the version number being released and adhere to the following notation: "`Release-vX.Y.0`".
5. The tag creation will automatically trigger the "`CI/CD - Release validation`" workflow for the `release/X.Y` branch. In case of failure, Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation).
13. Publish the release as per the [Publishing a Release](ReleaseProcess.md#publishing-a-release) process.

## Release Branch Validation

> The `CI/CD - Release validation` worfklow (`cicd-release-validation.yml`) is used to validate a release branch. It contains more tests than the regular CI/CD pipeline, including longer duration fuzz tests, fault injection tests, stress tests, performance tests etc. These tests can be manually scheduled. Release manager must run these tests on the release manager. Due to the non-deterministic nature of some of the tests, it is recommended that the tests are run at least three times on the branch. If any of the tests fail, the release manager must investigate the failure and follow up with issues in github. Once potential fixes are merged to the release branch repeat the process until the workflow completes successfully.

Reviewer 3: IMHO, you should never find out about a release problem after you fork the release. If you have some tests you don't/can't run on a PR, fine. But you should be running on commits to main, **before** you release.

Author: The release validation should run on a release branch where there will not be any churns. We do not want to block new commits to the main branch after forking the release branch.

Reviewer 3: My argument here is that the historical 'Windows process' of fork and then figure out your bugs and fix them shouldn't be the model to follow. Windows has to do that because of its size, but not undocked projects. Ideally, projects should shoot for having **all** the necessary automation run on PRs to keep your product clean (i.e. never merge a bug). But that often requires too much time, and therefore we relax some of the requirements in effort to speed up the inner dev loop. But that validation should then run on official commits immediately after merge. This way, you don't block progress, but you **immediately** find out the problem. I will admit this is a goal, and not necessarily something easily achievable, but it should be what we all shoot for; not the Windows process.

6. Go to the repo on GitHub and click on "`<Code>`" and click on right the "`Create a new release`" link.
7. Click on the "`Choose a tag`" combo box and select the tag with version number for the release, as created earlier.
8. Fill in the release title as "`vX.Y.Z`". Note "`Z`" must be `0` for the monthly release. Otherwise, it should be the patch number.
9. Manually enter release notes or click "`Generate release notes`" and then edit as desired.
10. Attach the `.msi`, the (non-redist) `.nupkg`, the `Build-x64-[Release|Debug].zip` and the `Build-x64-native-only-[Release|Debug].X.Y.Z.zip` build (from the CI/CD artifacts), by dropping them in the "`Attach binaries by dropping them here or selecting them.`" area. For example, the file list for `v0.11.0` should be:

    - *Build-x64-native-only-Debug.0.11.0.zip*
    - *Build-x64-native-only-Release.0.11.0.zip*
    - *ebpf-for-windows.0.11.0.msi*
    - *eBPF-for-Windows.0.11.0.nupkg*
    - *Build-x64-Debug.zip*
    - *Build-x64-Release.zip*

11. Check the "`Set as a pre-release`" checkbox, unless the release is production-signed.
12. Once the uploads are complete, click "`Publish release`".

## Publishing the Release to NuGet.org

> Upload the (**non-redist**) `.nupkg` file to [NuGet.org](https://www.nuget.org/) (the metadata inside the `.nuget` package itself will automatically populate all the other form fields).

Reviewer 3: This is unsigned?

Author: This nuget feed only contains headers, libraries and build tools. It does not contain any drivers.

Reviewer 3: The nuget itself can/should still be signed. Signing isn't just for drivers.

> Upload the (**non-redist**) `.nupkg` file to [NuGet.org](https://www.nuget.org/) (the metadata inside the `.nuget` package itself will automatically populate all the other form fields).

Reviewer 3: [Your nuget](https://www.nuget.org/packages/eBPF-for-Windows) is not in the microsoft account? Nor a specific one for eBPF? FYI, see the [msquic one](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Native.Quic.MsQuic.OpenSSL).

Author: @gtrevi pleae follow up with @nibanks .

## Servicing a Release

Servicing a release has two main scenarios:

### Updating a Release branch with patches/hot-fixes from main (*Forward Integration*)

>NOTE: In servicing a release branch, **new features must not be added to the release branch**.  Only patches or hot-fixes will be accepted.

> 1. On the upstream `ebpf-for-windows` repo, create and check out a new topic branch from the `release/X.Y` branch you want to service.

Reviewer 3: Upstream (i.e. OneBranch?) should only be used for security sensitive fixes (i.e. MSRCs). Everything else should still go through GitHub.

Author: I meant the base/original repo. Will fix.

    Version number updated to '0.12.0' in D:\work\ebpf-for-windows\scripts\..\installer\Product.wxs
    Rebuilding the solution, please wait...
    Regenerating the expected 'bpf2c' output...
    ...
    ...
    Expected 'bpf2c' output regenerated.
    Please verify all the changes then submit the pull-request into the 'release/0.12' branch.
    ```
1. Verify all the changes then commit all in the working branch.
    >NOTE: The formatting rules may complain about the formatting of the generated `.c` files from the script above. In this case, override them with the
    following (so they'll work with the `bpf2c_tests` verifying their content):
    >```bash
    >git commit --no-verify
    >```
1. Create a pull-request from your topic branch into the `main` branch of the original repo, with the title of the PR as *"Release v`X.Y.0`"* (replace "`X`" and
"`Y`" with the version number being released).
1. Once the PR is approved and merged into the "`main`" branch, of the original `ebpf-for-windows` repo, create a new release branch from `main` from the

> **previous PR's commit**, and name it "`release/X.Y.`".

Reviewer: Why is there a trailing period in `release/X.Y.`?
```suggestion
**previous PR's commit**, and name it "`release/X.Y`".
```

> 1. **IMPORTANT:** Once the release branch is created, no new feature work is allowed to be merged. However, bug fixes can be taken as deemed necessary by the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **IMPORTANT:** Once the release branch is created, no new feature work is allowed to be merged into that branch.
```

> 1. **IMPORTANT:** Once the release branch is created, no new feature work is allowed to be merged. However, bug fixes can be taken as deemed necessary by the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **IMPORTANT:** Once the release branch is created, no new feature work is allowed to be merged into that branch. However, bug fixes can be taken as deemed necessary by the
```

 maintainers and the release manager. Whenever applicable, these bug fixes should first be made in the main branch, and cherry-picked to the release branch. In
  case bug-fix PRs are merged into the `release/X.Y` branch, the **latest commit** in the `release/X.Y` branch must be designated as the commit for the release.
1. Follow the process in the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation) to ensure the quality of the release branch.
1. In the triage meeting after the validation of the release branch, the release manager must ask if any maintainer has any reasons to hold off the release. If

> not, move to the following steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
not, move on to the following steps.
```

1. The `sign-off` label will be added to the issue created in step 1 of the [Creating a new release](ReleaseProcess.md#creating-a-new-release) process. Next
create a tag for the *latest commit on the `release/X.Y` branch*. The tag should reflect the version number being released and adhere to the following notation:
"`Release-vX.Y.0`".
1. The tag creation will automatically trigger the "`CI/CD - Release validation`" workflow for the `release/X.Y` branch. In case of failure, Follow the process in
the [Release Branch Validation](ReleaseProcess.md#release-branch-validation).
1. Publish the release as per the [Publishing a Release](ReleaseProcess.md#publishing-a-release) process.

## Release Branch Validation

> The `CI/CD - Release validation` worfklow (`cicd-release-validation.yml`) is used to validate a release branch. It contains more tests than the regular CI/CD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CI/CD - Release validation` workflow(`cicd-release-validation.yml`) is used to validate a release branch. It contains more tests than the regular CI/CD
```
typo

pipeline, including longer duration fuzz tests, fault injection tests, stress tests, performance tests etc. These tests can be manually scheduled. The release
manager must run these tests on the release branch. Due to the non-deterministic nature of some of the tests, it is recommended that the tests are run at least

> three times on the branch. If any of the tests fail, the release manager must investigate the failure and follow up with issues in GitHub. Once potential fixes

Reviewer: This is ok for this PR, but recommending running something three times indicates that there are gaps.  Instead going forward, CI/CD could run the same test three times so the release manager doesn't need to count.

Author: Agreed.

    the name.
1.  Attach the `Build-x64-[Release|Debug].zip`, the `Build-x64-native-only-[Release|Debug].X.Y.Z.zip`, the `.msi`, and the `.nupkg`, by dropping them in the
"`Attach binaries by dropping them here or selecting them.`" area. For example, the file list for `v0.12.0` should be:
    - *Build-x64-Debug.zip*
    - *Build-x64-Release.zip*
    - *Build-x64-native-only-Debug.0.12.0.zip*
    - *Build-x64-native-only-Release.0.12.0.zip*
    - *ebpf-for-windows.0.12.0.msi*
    - *eBPF-for-Windows.0.12.0.nupkg*

1.  Check the "`Set as a pre-release`" checkbox, unless the release is production-signed.
1.  Once the uploads are complete, click "`Publish release`".

## Publishing the Release to NuGet.org

Upload the (**non-redist**) `.nupkg` file to [NuGet.org](https://www.nuget.org/) (the metadata inside the `.nuget` package itself will automatically populate all
the other form fields).

## Servicing a Release

Servicing a release has two main scenarios:

### Updating a Release branch with patches/hot-fixes from main (*Forward Integration*)

>NOTE: In servicing a release branch, **new features must not be added to the release branch**.  Only patches or hot-fixes will be accepted.

> 1. On the original `ebpf-for-windows` repo, create and check out a new topic branch from the `release/X.Y` branch you want to service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the main `microsoft/ebpf-for-windows` repo, create and check out a new topic branch from the `release/X.Y` branch you want to service.
```

I would not use the word "original".

Author: that is the terminology used in (github doc)[https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo]. I could change it to `"upstream"`

    >```bash
    >git commit --no-verify
    >```
1. Create a **Draft** pull-request from the topic branch into the upstream repo's "`release/X.Y`" branch, and title the PR as *"Release v`X.Y.Z`"* where "`Z`" is the patch version.
1. Wait for  the CI/CD pipeline for the PR to complete successfully.

> 1. Mark the draft PR as "Ready for review".

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure why you have the process of using Draft PRs and then publishing them. You should eliminate as many manual steps as possible. The automation itself should enforce when things are ready. Draft PRs should only be used when you are sure there will be additional commits, and it is not worth review from someone.

Author: Agreed. simplified.

    git mergetool
    ```
1. Verify all the changes then commit all in the working branch.
    >NOTE: The formatting rules may complain about the formatting of the generated `.c` files from the script above. In this case, override them with the
    following (so they'll work with the `bpf2c_tests` verifying their content):
    >```bash
    >git commit --no-verify
    >```
1. Create a pull-request from the topic branch into the original repo's "`release/X.Y`" branch, and title the PR as *"Release v`X.Y.Z`"* where "`Z`" is the patch
version.

> 1. Once the PR is approved and merged into the "`release/X.Y`" branch in the original repo, create a tag for the latest commit as "`Release-vX.Y.Z`".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Once the PR is approved and merged into the "`release/X.Y`" branch in the original repo, and create a tag for the latest commit in the following format: "`Release-vX.Y.Z`".
```

1. Publish the patch release as per the [Publishing a Release](ReleaseProcess.md#publishing-a-release) process.

### Updating the main brach with patches/hot-fixes from a Release branch (*Reverse/Backwards Integration*)

>IMPORTANT! Normally, this should be done by the release manager **in VERY RARE scenarios** (and it's also likely an indication there's been a failure in the
releasing process), but if you are a contributor and have been asked to do this, here are the steps to be followed:

> 1. On the main `ebpf-for-windows` repo, create and check out a new working branch from the "`main`" branch.

Reviewer: A "contributor" cannot create a new branch in the main ebpf-for-windows repo, only in their own fork.  I'd recommend changing either line 137 to say maintainer instead of contributor or (my preference) change line 139 to say on one's personal fork (instead of the main repo), create a branch.

Author: addressed.

1. Commit all the changes in the working branch.
1. Create a **Draft** pull-request for your working branch into the main repo's "`main`" branch, and title the PR as *"Backwards Integration of Release v`X.Y.Z`"* (replace "`X.Y.Z`" with the version number being released).
1. Wait for the CI/CD pipeline for the PR to complete successfully.
1. Mark the draft PR as "Ready for review".
3. Submit the PR for review (from its draft state), and wait for it to be approved and merged into the main repo's "`main`" branch.

> 4. Create a tag for the PR's commit number, on the main repo's "`main`" branch, with meaningful name (i.e., "*RI-from-release-vX.Y.Z*").

Reviewer 3: Why are you tagging `main`? Tags are generally reserved for releases only.

Author: @gtrevi - is it needed to tag the main if we ever RI from a release branch?

Author: Removed the line about tagging.
